---
title: The PARA Method
timestamp: 20220716211933
zk_number: 4.1
public: true
---


## General thoughts
How does PARA map to my Johnny Decimal index?
This PARA approach links PKM systems to execution and productivity tools.
The PARA methods are listed in order of actionability; i.e. active projects first, areas of responsibility second, resources third and archives fourth.

## Method Description

### (P)rojects
*A series of tasks linked to a goal, with a deadline. Review each day*

1. Has a goal to be achieved
2. Has a deadline

* Fits more with todo management techniques
* Can fall under multiple Areas of Responsibility
* Getting a sense of current projects is the only way to assess capacity/utilisation. People make the mistake of thinking that they need to consider their Areas of Responsibility to undestand their workload, and this is the wrong approach.
* Projects without a goal are “hobbies” and are therefore not projects but Areas of Responsibility
* Goals without corresponding projects are “dreams”, and therefore again map to Areas of responsibility

*Examples: Develop project plan; write blog post, attend conference

### (A)rea of Responsibility
*A sphere of activity with a standard to be maintained over time. Review weekly, or more infrequently*

1. Has a standard to be maintained
2. Has no end date

* Fits more with mind mapping & PKM
* Can contain a number of Projects
* Areas of Responsibilities answer the “why”; projects answer the “how”. Therefore Areas of Responsibility need to drive your direction, but they need to be distilled into current, actionable projects to get anywhere in practical terms.

*Examples: Health; Finances; Hobbies; Friends; Productivity; Creative

### (R)esource
*A topic or theme of ongoing interest. Review when looking for something to do, or when source material is required for work on projects or areas of responsibility*

Examples: Coffee; music; gardening; note-taking``

### (A)rchive
*Inactive items from the other 3 categories. Review as part of PKM hiegyne under Areas of Responsiblity*

Examples: completed or inactive projects; areas that you are no longer committed to; resources you are no longer interested in or pursuing

***
## Links
* [The PARA Method: A Universal System for Organising Digital Information](https://fortelabs.co/blog/para/)
* [[4 How to set boundaries with your to-do list]]
* [[4.3 Johnny Decimal]]